It was then...despairing that the keeper of his terrairium had abandoned him that the strangest thing was heard on the other side of the glass....
ou4:03 PM
Yeah, yeah, here.
William Newman4:03 PM
Hi Matthew!  Can you hear and see ok?
You4:04 PM
Nah , too much background noise.
I'll be on gmail and git hub as well.
You4:05 PM
I'll type fast'ish
Re-formatting this paper as a powerpoint.
You4:07 PM
Lowers the bar for entry....Lowers bar for standards as well.
You4:08 PM
Principles of good design are informed by older process.
Maintenance on 3d printers...
You4:09 PM
secondary operatrions.
You4:10 PM
lathe turning  or other machining operations will still be necessary for precision mating parts will be necessary .
repeater typo.
You4:12 PM
Best short book I've read lately is "engineering and the mind's eye"
Kind of touched on the difference between intuitive/creative design and calculation.
You4:14 PM
accessibility of tools like 3d printing...
You4:15 PM
frees up some of that capacity for inventive individuals.
There is a shortage of machinists right now......
THe job function has been redefined by the digital interface.
You4:16 PM
Machinists need to know basics of programming.
As do maintenance operators.
You4:17 PM
I could have hustled up at break. for 2
Votech schooling has been abandoned
Voc. tech.
You4:19 PM
Fire sales of metal shopand wood shop tooling were put up a decade ago.
By school districts teaching to tests.
You4:20 PM
Test of not cutting off your fingers around sharp objects and measuring things isn't happening young enough.
You4:21 PM
I had to delve into learning welding and basic machine shop stuff on my own.
You4:23 PM
German appprenticeship programs are exemplary though.
For training truly skilled labor that kind of immersion is necessary.
You4:25 PM
Programming has been the missing bit in my skillset.
You4:27 PM
Young people need exposure to the options of being a skillled laborer earlier...
You4:28 PM
there has been an attitude that lionizes professional career tracks that reqiuire years of college...
trades let people have a skillset they can fall back on.
You4:30 PM
were we talking about 3d printing still.
12 page?
You4:33 PM
Internal training is a huge reason China has been able to take over manufacturing...
Lax regulation era is ending quickly there....
You4:35 PM
Wages are rising and their new creative class willl be better informed about core skills in manufacturing.
informed by core skills and STEM
You4:40 PM
I have an idea or two about nomadic comforts.
Had to take a calll.
You4:42 PM
Back now.
Freight train made me late. so I signed.
You4:43 PM
in from where I was.
You4:44 PM
Typing? Who needs it.  We have emojis and positive reinforcement bubbles on our cell phones and social media.

What was that?
